README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<img align="center" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25497083/152479229-28d8a2d9-3158-4742-aff9-e8860dce11ca.png" width="500">
<h1>Thousand Contributors Programme</h1>
<br>
</div>

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [How to Participate](#how-to-participate)
  - [Process](#process)
  - [Submission reviews](#submission-reviews)
- [Roadmap](#roadmap)
  - [Stage 1: Pilot](#stage-1-pilot)
  - [Stage 2: Scale](#stage-2-scale)
  - [Stage 3: Decentralize](#stage-3-decentralize)
- [1KC Evaluators](#1kc-evaluators)
- [Alternative Funding Sources](#alternative-funding-sources)
  - [Treasury](#treasury)
- [License](#license)
<!-- /TOC -->
---

## Introduction

The Technical Education and Support teams of the Web3 Foundation, along with the Community team 
at Parity Technologies offer an off-chain contributor program to support and fund community 
contributions. As part of our commitment to promoting the WEB3 ecosystem, this program focuses on 
funding contributions in the areas of **Technical Education**, **Community** and 
**Support** that relates to the Polkadot ecosystem.

The program, One Thousand Contributors Programme or 1KC for short, takes motivation from the 
[Thousand Validators Programme (1KV)](https://github.com/w3f/1k-validators-be) and the 
[Web3 Foundation Grants Program](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program).

> The 1KC program is managed by the Technical Education & Support teams of Web3 Foundation.
> For more information about Web3 Foundation, please visit the [About page](https://web3.foundation/about/) 
> on our website.

## How to Participate

You can signal your intent to participate by choosing a task from this [list](https://github.com/orgs/w3f/projects/13)
of open tasks, and then filling out this [typeform](https://form.typeform.com/to/I9vjnCcI).

### Process

Once you have submitted your contribution proposal, the team will:

1. Evaluate. Your [evaluators](#1kc-evaluators) will differ depending on which area you want to contribute.
2. Accept or deny. Once we review your proposal, we will get in touch with you about the status.
3. Define your delivery. All tasks will have different delivery requirements; we will communicate what your 
contribution needs to fulfill.
4. Funding. Once both parties finalize the delivery of the task, the team will deposit your rewards to the account
shared with us.

### Submission reviews

The review process follows the present pipeline in the [1KC public GitHub project](https://github.com/orgs/w3f/projects/13).

## Roadmap

### Stage 1: Pilot

*Pilot the program within more general conditions, for non-adversarial participants.*

- Discover and understand the bottlenecks of this program.
- Contributors of varying backgrounds and levels of expertise can submit contributions. These contributions will be 
subject to compliance with established guidelines outlined in this document and high levels of scrutiny.

The team initially launched the program as a pilot program with an estimated duration of around 14 weeks, where tasks 
are outlined by Web3 Foundation and made publically available. 

**Target Audience**: Ambassadors that are part of the [Polkadot 
Ambassador Programme](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/ambassadors) and active ecosystem members.

The purpose of this is to test out the program through active community members and reward existing contributors.

### Stage 2: Scale

*Scale the program within greater conditions, for adversarial participants.*

- Iterate portions subject to change based on lessons from the pilot program.
- Extend the program to the general community.
- Create an official landing page.
- Increase funding amount.

After the pilot program, the team intends to scale this to a grants-proposal model, where the community can propose 
any new ideas. 

**Target Audience**: All types of Polkadot community members.

### Stage 3: Decentralize

*Decentralize the program without previous conditions, for all participants.*

The program starts small with the goal to learn as we go. We plan to decentralize
this programme and consider moving the program on-chain, as it makes sense. 

> Similar to the Polkadot launch; Polkadot started as a Proof of Authority (PoA) network, without any other functionality 
> than the ability to create blocks with nodes controlled by Web3 Foundation. Slowly, we started releasing features 
> that allowed the network to be more decentralized, such as the ability to become a validator, and then governance,
> followed by balance transfers, etc. We hope you will be excited to help us develop this program further with the 
> same intent in mind.

**Target Audience**: The entire Polkadot ecosystem.

## 1KC Evaluators

1KC Evaluators are individuals able to evaluate the contribution delivered from the Contributors Programme. 

- Supervisor: [Bill Laboon](https://github.com/laboon)
- Technical Education: 
  - [Radhakrishna Dasari](https://github.com/DrW3RK): Media related contributions 
  - [Emre Surmeli](https://github.com/emresurmeli): Communinty related contributions
  - [Danny Salman](https://github.com/DannyS03): Documentation related contributions
- Support: 
  - [Michalis Fragkiadakis](https://github.com/michalisFr): Support related contributions

The 1KC evaluators will reach out to Subject Matter Experts within Web3 Foundation where a niche expert opinion is desirable.
As the program is currently in a pilot model, an official committee will be established when the time is appropriate.
 
## Alternative Funding Sources
 
We encourage you to explore the alternative funding options listed below. Please note, however, that you should not seek to fund 
the exact scope of work from multiple sources and that any team found doing so will have its Web3 Foundation support terminated.

### Treasury

The treasury is a pot of on-chain funds collected through transaction fees, slashing, staking inefficiencies, etc. The funds held 
in the treasury can be spent on spending proposals. Both [Polkadot](https://polkadot.network/) and [Kusama](https://kusama.network/) 
offer everyone the opportunity to apply for funding via the treasury. 
See:

- [Treasury Wiki](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-treasury)
- [Polkadot Treasury Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IZykdp2cyQavcRyZd_dgNj5DcgxgZR6kAqGdcNARu1w)
- [Kusama Treasury Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p3UQUjph5t8TVaWnTkfrI5mE-BABnM9Xvtuhdlhl6JE)

## License

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE) © Web3 Foundation

Commit message:

address PR feedback
- remove pilot program duration
- clarify purpose for rewarding

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<img align="center" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25497083/152479229-28d8a2d9-3158-4742-aff9-e8860dce11ca.png" width="500">
<h1>Thousand Contributors Programme</h1>
<br>
</div>

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [How to Participate](#how-to-participate)
  - [Process](#process)
  - [Submission reviews](#submission-reviews)
- [Roadmap](#roadmap)
  - [Stage 1: Pilot](#stage-1-pilot)
  - [Stage 2: Scale](#stage-2-scale)
  - [Stage 3: Decentralize](#stage-3-decentralize)
- [1KC Evaluators](#1kc-evaluators)
- [Alternative Funding Sources](#alternative-funding-sources)
  - [Treasury](#treasury)
- [License](#license)
<!-- /TOC -->
---

## Introduction

The Technical Education and Support teams of the Web3 Foundation, along with the Community team 
at Parity Technologies offer an off-chain contributor program to support and fund community 
contributions. As part of our commitment to promoting the WEB3 ecosystem, this program focuses on 
funding contributions in the areas of **technical education**, **community** and 
**support** that relates to the Polkadot ecosystem.

The program, One Thousand Contributors Programme or 1KC for short, takes motivation from the 
[Thousand Validators Programme (1KV)](https://github.com/w3f/1k-validators-be) and the 
[Web3 Foundation Grants Program](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program).

> The 1KC program is managed by the Technical Education & Support teams of Web3 Foundation.
> For more information about Web3 Foundation, please visit the [About page](https://web3.foundation/about/) 
> on our website.

## How to Participate

You can signal your intent to participate by choosing a task from this [list](https://github.com/orgs/w3f/projects/13)
of open tasks, and then filling out this [typeform](https://form.typeform.com/to/I9vjnCcI).

### Process

Once you have submitted your contribution proposal, the team will:

1. Evaluate. Your [evaluators](#1kc-evaluators) will differ depending on which area you want to contribute.
2. Accept or deny. Once we review your proposal, we will get in touch with you about the status.
3. Define your delivery. All tasks will have different delivery requirements; we will communicate what your 
contribution needs to fulfill.
4. Funding. Once both parties finalize the delivery of the task, the team will deposit your rewards to the account
shared with us.

### Submission reviews

The review process follows the present pipeline in the [1KC public GitHub project](https://github.com/orgs/w3f/projects/13).

## Roadmap

### Stage 1: Pilot

*Pilot the program within more general conditions, for non-adversarial participants.*

- Discover and understand the bottlenecks of this program.
- Contributors of varying backgrounds and levels of expertise can submit contributions. These contributions will be 
subject to compliance with established guidelines outlined in this document and high levels of scrutiny.

The team initially launched the program as a pilot program, where tasks are outlined by Web3 Foundation and made 
publically available.

The team uses this program as an off-chain reward mechanism to reward specific contributions from 
the community. We believe this is supplementary to the on-chain treasury and bounties, which don't reward 
specific contributions easily. See [Alternative Funding Sources](#alternative-funding-sources) for more details on 
traditional funding methods.

> However, the program also serves as an opportunity to encourage contributions in the areas of technical 
> education, community, and support for the Polkadot ecosystem.

**Target Audience**: Ambassadors that are part of the [Polkadot 
Ambassador Programme](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/ambassadors) and active ecosystem members.

The purpose of this is to test out the program through active community members and reward existing contributors.

### Stage 2: Scale

*Scale the program within greater conditions, for adversarial participants.*

- Iterate portions subject to change based on lessons from the pilot program.
- Extend the program to the general community.
- Create an official landing page.
- Increase funding amount.

After the pilot program, the team intends to scale this to a grants-proposal model, where the community can propose 
any new ideas. 

**Target Audience**: All types of Polkadot community members.

### Stage 3: Decentralize

*Decentralize the program without previous conditions, for all participants.*

The program starts small with the goal to learn as we go. We plan to decentralize
this programme and consider moving the program on-chain, as it makes sense. 

> Similar to the Polkadot launch; Polkadot started as a Proof of Authority (PoA) network, without any other functionality 
> than the ability to create blocks with nodes controlled by Web3 Foundation. Slowly, we started releasing features 
> that allowed the network to be more decentralized, such as the ability to become a validator, and then governance,
> followed by balance transfers, etc. We hope you will be excited to help us develop this program further with the 
> same intent in mind.

**Target Audience**: The entire Polkadot ecosystem.

## 1KC Evaluators

1KC Evaluators are individuals able to evaluate the contribution delivered from the Contributors Programme. 

- Supervisor: [Bill Laboon](https://github.com/laboon)
- Technical Education: 
  - [Radhakrishna Dasari](https://github.com/DrW3RK): Media related contributions 
  - [Emre Surmeli](https://github.com/emresurmeli): Communinty related contributions
  - [Danny Salman](https://github.com/DannyS03): Documentation related contributions
- Support: 
  - [Michalis Fragkiadakis](https://github.com/michalisFr): Support related contributions

The 1KC evaluators will reach out to Subject Matter Experts within Web3 Foundation where a niche expert opinion is desirable.
As the program is currently in a pilot model, an official committee will be established when the time is appropriate.
 
## Alternative Funding Sources
 
We encourage you to explore the alternative funding options listed below. Please note, however, that you should not seek to fund 
the exact scope of work from multiple sources and that any team found doing so will have its Web3 Foundation support terminated.

### Treasury

The treasury is a pot of on-chain funds collected through transaction fees, slashing, staking inefficiencies, etc. The funds held 
in the treasury can be spent on spending proposals. Both [Polkadot](https://polkadot.network/) and [Kusama](https://kusama.network/) 
offer everyone the opportunity to apply for funding via the treasury. 
See:

- [Treasury Wiki](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-treasury)
- [Polkadot Treasury Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IZykdp2cyQavcRyZd_dgNj5DcgxgZR6kAqGdcNARu1w)
- [Kusama Treasury Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p3UQUjph5t8TVaWnTkfrI5mE-BABnM9Xvtuhdlhl6JE)

## License

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE) © Web3 Foundation
